<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    
    <head>
        
        <title>Plunkitt of Tammany Hall: A Series of Very Plain Talks on Very Practical
            PoliticsGeorge Washington Plunkitt ProjectPlunkitt of Tammany Hall: A Series of Very Plain Talks on Very Practical Politics</title>
        
    </head>
    
    <body>
        
        <div>
            
            
            
            <p>There's only one way to hold a district: you must study human nature and act
                accordin'. You can't study human nature in books. Books is a hindrance more than
                anything else. If you have been to college, so much the worse for you. You'll have
                to
                unlearn all you learned before you can get right down to human nature, and unlearnin'
                takes a lot of time. Some men can never forget what they learned at college. Such
                men
                may get to be district leaders by a fluke, but they never last. </p>
            
            
            <p>To learn real human nature you have to go among the people, see them and be seen..1
                know every man, woman, and child in the <a href="place003">Fifteenth District</a>,
                except them that's been born this summer—and I know some of them, too. I know what
                they like and what they don't like, what they are strong at and what they are weak
                in, and I reach them by approachin' at the right side.</p>
            
            
            <p>For instance, here's how I gather in the young men. I hear of a young feller that's
                proud of his voice, thinks that he can sing fine. I ask him to come around to
                <a href="place004">Washington Hall</a> and join our Glee Club. He comes and sings,
                and he's a follower of <a href="#person001">Plunkitt</a> for life.
                Another young feller gains a reputation as a baseball player in a vacant lot. I bring
                him into our baseball club. That fixes him. You'll find him workin' for my ticket
                at
                the polls next election day. Then there's the feller that likes rowin' on the river,
                the young feller that makes a name as a waltzer on his block, the young feller that's
                handy with his dukes—I rope them all in by givin' them opportunities to show
                themselves off. I don't trouble them with political arguments. I just study human
                nature and act accordin'.</p>
            
            
            <p>But you may say this game won't work with the high-toned fellers, the fellers that
                go
                through college and then join the <a href="org004">Citizens' Union</a>. Of course it
                wouldn't work. I have a special treatment for them. I ain't like the patent medicine
                man that gives the same medicine for all diseases. The <a href="org004">Citizens'
                    Union</a> kind of a young man! I love him! He's the daintiest morsel of the
                lot, and he don't often escape me.</p>
            
            
            <p>Before telling you how I catch him, let me mention that before the election last
                year, the <a href="org004">Citizens' Union</a> said they had four hundred or five
                hundred enrolled voters in my district. They had a lovely headquarters, too,
                beautiful roll-top desks and the cutest rugs in the world. If I was accused of havin'
                contributed to fix up the nest for them, I wouldn't deny it under oath. What do I
                mean by that? Never mind. You can guess from the sequel, if you're sharp.</p>
            
            
            <p>Well, election day came. The <a href="org004">Citizens' Union's</a>
                candidate for , who ran against me, just polled five votes in
                the district, while I polled something more than 14,000 votes. What became of the
                400
                or 500 <a href="org004">Citizens' Union</a> enrolled voters in my
                district? Some people guessed that many of them were good <a href="person001">Plunkitt</a> men all along and worked with the <a href="">Cits</a>
                just to bring them into the <a href="#person001">Plunkitt</a> camp by
                election day. You can guess that way, too, if you want to. I never contradict stories
                about me, especially in hot weather. I just call your attention to the fact that on
                last election day 395 <a href="org004">Citizens' Union</a> enrolled
                voters in my district were missin' and unaccounted for.</p>
            
            
            <p>I tell you frankly, though, how I have captured some of the <a href="org004">Citizens'
                Union's</a> young men. I have a plan that never fails. I watch the City
                Record to see when there's civil service examinations for good things. Then I take
                my
                young <a href="org004">Cit</a> in hand, tell him all about the good thing and get him worked
                up till he goes and takes an examination. I don't bother about him any more. It's
                a
                cinch that he comes back to me in a few days and asks to join <a href="org001">Tammany Hall</a>. Come over to <a href="">Washington Hall</a>
                some night and I'll show you a list of names on our roll' marked
                <q>"C.S."</q> which means, <q>"bucked up against civil
                    service."</q></p>
            
            
            <p>As to the older voters, I reach them, too. No, I don't send them campaign literature.
                That's rot. People can get all the political stuff they want to read—and a good deal
                more, too—in the papers. Who reads speeches, nowadays, anyhow? It's bad enough to
                listen to them. You ain't goin' to gain any votes by stuffin' the letter boxes with
                campaign documents. Like as not you'll lose votes for there's nothin' a man hates
                more than to hear the letter carrier ring his bell and go to the letter box expectin'
                to find a letter he was lookin' for, and find only a lot of printed politics. I met
                a
                man this very mornin' who told me he voted the <a href="org002">Democratic</a> State ticket last year just because the <a href="org003">Republicans</a> kept crammin' his letter box with campaign
                documents.</p>
            
            
            <p>What tells in holdin' your grip on your district is to go right down among the poor
                families and help them in the different ways they need help. I've got a regular
                system for this. If there's a fire in <a href="">Ninth</a>,
                <a href="">Tenth</a>, or <a href="">Eleventh
                    Avenue</a>, for example, any hour of the day or night, I'm usually there
                with some of my election district captains as soon as the fire engines. If a family
                is burned out I don't ask whether they are <a href="org002">Republicans</a> or <a href="org001">Democrats</a>, and I don't refer them to the <a href="">Charity Organization Society</a>, which would investigate their case in a
                month or two and decide they were worthy of help about the time they are dead from
                starvation. I just get quarters for them buy clothes for them if their clothes were
                burned up, and fix them up till they get things runnin' again. It's philanthropy,
                but
                it's politics, too—mighty good politics. Who can tell how many votes one of these
                fires bring me? The poor are the most grateful people in the world, and, let me tell
                you, they have more friends in their neighborhoods than the rich have in theirs.</p>
            
            
            <p>If there's a family in my district in want I know it before the charitable societies
                do, and me and my men are first on the ground. I have a special corps to look up such
                cases. The consequence is that the poor look up to <a href="#person001">George
                    W. Plunkitt</a> as a father, come to him in trouble—and don't forget him on
                .</p>
            
            
            <p>Another thing, I can always get a job for a deservin' man. I make it a point to keep
                on the track of jobs, and it seldom happens that I don't have a few up my sleeve
                ready for use. I know every big employer in the district and in the whole city, for
                that matter, and they ain't in the habit of sayin' no to me when I ask them for a
                job.</p>
            
            
            <p>And the children—the little roses of the district! Do I forget them? Oh, no! They
                know me, every one of them, and they know that a sight of Uncle George and candy
                means the same thing. Some of them are the best kind of vote-getters. I'll tell you
                a
                case. Last year a little <a href="">Eleventh Avenue</a>
                rosebud, whose father is a <a href="org003">Republican</a>, caught
                hold of his whiskers on election day and said she wouldn't let go till he'd promise
                to vote for me. And she didn't.</p>
        </div>
        
        
        
        <div>
            
            
            <p>I've been readin' a book by <a href="person002">Lincoln
                Steffens</a> on .
                <a href="person002">Steffens</a> means well but,
                like all reformers, he don't know how to make distinctions. He can't see no
                difference between honest graft and dishonest graft and, consequent, he gets things
                all mixed up. There's the biggest kind of a difference between political looters and
                politicians who make a fortune out of politics by keepin' their eyes wide open. The
                looter goes in for himself alone without considerin' his organization or his city.
                The politician looks after his own interests, the organization's interests, and the
                city's interests all at the same time. See the distinction? For instance, I ain't
                no
                looter. The looter hogs it. I never hogged. I made my pile in politics, but, at the
                same time, I served the organization and got more big improvements for <a href="place001">New York City</a> than any other livin' man. And I never
                monkeyed with the penal code.</p>
            
            
            <p>The difference between a looter and a practical politician is the difference between
                the <a href="place002">Philadelphia</a>
                <a href="org003">Republican gang</a> and <a href="org001">Tammany Hall</a>.
                <a href="person002">Steffens</a> seems to think they're both about
                the same; but he's all wrong. The <a href="org003">Philadelphia crowd</a>
                runs up against the penal code. <a href="org001">Tammany</a> don't. The
                <a href="org003">Philadelphians</a> ain't satisfied with robbin' the bank of all its
                gold and paper money. They stay to pick up the nickels and pennies and the cop comes
                and nabs them. <a href="org001">Tammany</a> ain't no such fool. Why, I
                remember, about fifteen or twenty years ago, a Republican superintendent of the
                <a href="">Philadelphia almshouse</a> stole the zinc roof off the buildin'
                and sold it for junk. That was carryin' things to excess. There's a limit to
                everything, and the <a href="org003">Philadelphia Republicans</a> go
                beyond the limit. It seems like they can't be cool and moderate like real
                politicians. It ain't fair, therefore, to class <a href="org001">Tammany</a> men with
                the <a href="org003">Philadelphia gang.</a> Any man who undertakes to
                write political books should never for a moment lose sight of the distinction between
                honest graft and dishonest graft, which I explained in full in another talk. If he
                puts all kinds of graft on the same level, he'll make the fatal mistake that
                <a href="person002">Steffens</a> made and spoil his
                book.</p>
            
            
            <p>A big city like <a href="place001">New York</a> or <a href="place002">Philadelphia</a> or <a href="">Chicago</a> might be
                compared to a sort of <a href="">Garden of Eden</a>, from a political point
                of view. It's an orchard full of beautiful apple trees. One of them has got a big
                sign on it, marked: "Penal Code Tree—Poison." The other trees have lots of apples
                on
                them for all. Yet the fools go to the Penal Code Tree. Why? For the reason, I guess,
                that a cranky child refuses to eat good food and chews up a box of matches with
                relish. I never had any temptation to touch the Penal Code Tree. The other apples
                are
                good enough for me, and 0 Lord! how many of them there are in a big city!</p>
            
            
            <p><a href="person002">Steffens</a> made one good point
                in his book. He said he found that <a href="place002">Philadelphia</a>, ruled almost entirely by <a href="org006">Americans</a>, was
                more corrupt than <a href="place001">New York</a>, where the
                <a href="org005">Irish</a> do almost all the governin'. I could have told him that
                before he did any investigatin' if he had come to me. The <a href="org005"> Irish </a> was born to rule, and
                they're the honestest people in the world. Show me the <a href="org005">Irishman</a>
                who would steal a roof off an almhouse! He don't exist. Of course, if an
                <a href="org005">Irishman</a> had the political pull and the roof was much worn, he
                might get the city authorities to put on a new one and get the contract for it
                himself, and buy the old roof at a bargain—but that's honest graft. It's goin' about
                the thing like a gentleman, and there's more money in it than in tearin' down an old
                roof and cartin' it to the junkman's—more money and no penal code.</p>
            
            
            <p>One reason why the <a href="org005">Irishman</a> is more honest in politics than many
                <a href="org006"></a> is that he is grateful to the
                country and the city that gave him protection and prosperity when he was driven by
                oppression from the . Say, that sentence is fine,
                ain't it? I'm goin' to get some literary feller to work it over into poetry for next
                dinner.</p>
            
            
            <p>Yes, the <a href="org0005">Irishman</a> is grateful. His one thought is to serve the
                city which gave him a home. He has this thought even before he lands in <a href="place001">New York</a>, for his friends here often have a good place
                in one of the city departments picked out for him while he is still in the old
                country. Is it any wonder that he has a tender spot in his heart for old <a href="place001">New York</a> when he is on its salary list the mornin'
                after he lands?</p>
            
            
            <p>Now, a few words on the general subject of the so called shame of cities. I don't
                believe that the government of our cities is any worse, in proportion to
                opportunities, than it was fifty years ago. I'll explain what I mean by "in
                proportion to opportunities." A half a century ago, our cities were small and poor.
                There wasn't many temptations lyin' around for politicians. There was hardly anything
                to steal, and hardly any opportunities for even honest graft. A city could count its
                money every night before goin' to bed, and if three cents was missin', all the fire
                bells would be rung. What credit was there in bein' honest under them circumstances'?
                It makes me tired to hear of old codgers back in the thirties or forties boastin'
                that they retired from politics without a dollar except what they earned in their
                profession or business. If they lived today, with all the existin' opportunities,
                they would be just the same as twentieth-century politicians. There ain't any more
                honest people in the world just now than the convicts in Sing Sing. Not one of them
                steals anything. Why? Because they can't.
                See the application?</p>
            
            
            <p>Understand, I ain't defendin' politicians of today who steal. The politician who
                steals is worse than a thief. He is a fool. With the grand opportunities all around
                for the man with a political pull, there's no excuse for stealin' a cent. The point
                I
                want to make is that if there is some stealin' in politics, it don't mean that the
                politicians of 1905 are, as a class, worse than them of 1835. It just means that the
                old-timers had nothin' to steal, while the politicians now are surrounded by all
                kinds of temptations and some of them naturally—the fool ones—buck up against the
                penal code. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>